i've been
working with some people at protocollabs
on some optimization work
uh for i sharing ipfs node in the
browsers um
so it's a gonna be a brief crash course
the conventional web browsers tend to
expect that all the data are gonna be
funneled to them through
one server farm and that can be really
really efficient and it works great
however it has downsides if you have
multiple devices that are also trying to
get the same
data so even if they're in the same room
they will still have to go
over through that server farm to get it
ipfs works slightly differently than
that
it usually creates many many network
connections
uh and then tries to talk to those peers
directly
so if you use jsipfs in the browser like
this demo shows
this is briefly how it works
however if you kind of look under the
covers there are some issues with that
uh there are a lot of stuff happening
there's a lot of connections
data being processed so all this kind of
adds up and especially because it runs
in the main thread browser is pretty
busy executing stuff on the main thread
so at least on my machine which is
macbook air i usually get around 6.3
megabytes
usage per one tab in the browser
and i don't exactly know how many
network connections however once you
open
another tab you wind up with
doubling the amount of memory you use
and doubling the number of connections
you create
even though you share the same data
store
and this number just kind of keeps
increasing linearly
multiplied by the number of tabs you
have open that is because
we don't necessarily share anything
other than store
within the between the browser tabs
uh there's also some few other problems
that arise
by that because they end up sharing the
same data source they end up sharing the
same peer id
and then network gets a little confused
because
you wind up with multiple peers with the
same id and
usually only one of them gets really
connected
so again like if you just open 10 tabs
with ipfs same apps that i showed you
will have around 64 megabytes memory use
but we can do better than that and this
is the work that i've been doing here
we were trying to do some ipfs node
sharing so you see the same example
application
but this one uses a shared node
the thing that changed here is instead
of connecting directly to the network we
have a
shared worker in the browser and that's
where ipfs node is running
and it's sharing uh in connect to the
network
if you look at the memory profile of
this it's slightly worse
for the single tab use case because we
have about six
megabytes taken by the worker around
2.3 by the main thread
however as you kind of end up
creating more tabs you'll start seeing
benefits even with two tabs
you suddenly equation changes you will
still use the same
six megabytes in the shared worker but
then two different apps will
connect to it and they each use about
2.3 megabytes
of memory and even nicer thing is uh
we don't have that issue with a network
connections anymore because they are
shared so we don't increase network
connections
and all the subsequent tabs they don't
need to bootstrap node because they all
share
and as number increases like if we look
at the same number of 10 tabs you will
have same end connections
and you'll have about 30 megabytes
memory usage which is about a half
as you would otherwise um
what's even more starking is a cpu load
um
i'm a little pr not sure if my numbers
are here correct but
i see in this demo i tried to profile 10
tabs
on chrome which was taking about 18
percent of my cpu
load uh then i tried the demo that uses
a
share node and with 4 40 tabs it takes
about
2 of cpu if you want to know
how to use it or start using it today uh
there are packages on
npm and it's part of github igs ipfs
repo
there are two pieces one is a client and
a server so client is very similar to
how http client works
you can you can spawn a worker
with a server uh with the js ipfs in it
and then you can
connect through the message port
to the client and then client implements
the ipfs api so you can add files and
read files and do stuff like that
on the server side you just create a
server
and pass it the js ipfs instance and it
will serve it to all of its clients
um so what's there a lot of patches
there
still in the pipelines that will be
coming that will reduce some overhead
all that
current implementation has um
at the moment all of this work is
focused on the sharing node across the
same
browser origins uh getting it to work
across multiple origins is slightly more
work
so that's what will be coming next and
so the process we sort of also
identified some of the things that
uh maybe it makes sense to have
something like ipld with ipfs network
and we're
calling it for now dag service uh
because that seems to be the
subset of apis that most of the users we
talk to are using
cs4 i want to say thank you to
everyone who helped make this happen
both within ipl
fs or sorry protocol labs and outside
specifically three books textile orbit
and flick were instrumental to
providing feedback look and uh sharing
what they use how they use so we can
so we could calibrate the work to that
you